---
title: DSA123
permalink: /dsa123/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<h3></h3>
<p><strong>PUNGGOL SECONDARY SCHOOL&nbsp;培道中学</strong>
</p>
<p></p>
<p><strong>Direct School Admission 2024</strong>
</p>
<p><em>(For 2025 Secondary One Intake)</em>
</p>
<p></p>
<p>At Punggol Secondary School, our focus is on providing a holistic education
which emphasises character development, grounded in the School Values of
Propriety&nbsp;礼, Righteousness&nbsp;义, Integrity&nbsp;廉&nbsp;and Self-Respect&nbsp;耻.</p>
<p></p>
<p>The Vision of the school is to develop future-ready Punggolites who are
active contributors. The Mission of the school is to nurture a vibrant
community of self-directed and adaptable Punggolites, grounded in values.&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>We aim to nurture students into Achievers with Character&nbsp;who are
confident and motivated to&nbsp;excel in both the academic and non-academic
domains.</p>
<p><strong>&nbsp;</strong>
</p>
<p>We welcome students with outstanding talents and who value such an education
in Punggol Secondary School to apply for our DSA programme.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>* The school has implemented Full Subject-Based Banding from 2023.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>PROGRAMME AND OPPORTUNITIES</strong>
</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>DSA Area</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Programme and Opportunities</strong>
</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Volleyball</strong>
</p>
<p><strong>(Boys &amp; Girls)</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students will be trained by a professional
coach appointed by the school and be developed in their skills and competencies
to play competitive volleyball e.g. through a rigorous CCA training programme
and friendly matches with other teams and alumni.</p>
<p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students will have an opportunity to be selected
to represent the school in Volleyball tournaments (Zonal / Nationals).</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Choir</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students will be trained by a professional
instructor appointed by the school to be developed in their musicality,
ability to sing, and confidence in public performances as part of the school
choir e.g. through a rigorous CCA training programme, and exchange programmes
with other schools.</p>
<p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students will have an opportunity to be selected
to represent the school in the Singapore Youth Festival (SYF) Arts Presentation.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Community and Youth Leadership</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students will be trained by our teacher in-charge,
supported by coaches/instructors, to be developed in skills to interact,
serve and engage the community.</p>
<p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students who accept the DSA offer for Community
and Youth Leadership will join the Interact Club CCA.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Environmental Science</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students will be trained by our teacher in-charge
to be developed in skills to serve the school and community in areas related
to environmental science.</p>
<p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students will have opportunities to learn basic
research and presentation skills, and also apply their knowledge via hands-on
activities within the school and beyond and through competitions.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Students who accept the DSA offer for Environmental Science will join
the Environment Club CCA.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>_________________________________________________________________________</p>
<p><strong>&nbsp;</strong>
</p>
<p><strong>SELECTION CRITERIA</strong>
</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>We are looking for students who are&nbsp;self-motivated and demonstrate
potential in the above DSA areas. &nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Students who are interested in the Direct School Admission into Punggol
Secondary School must<strong>&nbsp;</strong>fulfil the following criteria:</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>DSA Area</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Selection Criteria</strong>
</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Volleyball</strong>
</p>
<p><strong>(Boys &amp; Girls)</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>1. Students must fulfill at least one of the following:</p>
<p>§&nbsp; An active member of Volleyball CCA in Primary School; and/or</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Represented Primary School in Volleyball tournament (Zonal / National);
and/or</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Represented Primary School in tournaments for any other Sports
CCA (Zonal / National)</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>2. Students achieved at least a Silver award in Primary 4/6 NAPFA results.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Selection Trial</p>
<p>Students must pass the following criteria:</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Physical Assessment</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Games Skills Assessment</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Interview</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Choir</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>1. Students must fulfill one of the following:</p>
<p>§&nbsp; An active member of Choir CCA in Primary School or has prior experience
in choral/solo singing; and/or</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Represented Primary School in Singapore Youth Festival (SYF) Arts
Presentation in 2023 and/or</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Represented national choral/vocal group or equivalent in performance(s)
and/or any local, regional or international competition(s)</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>2. Selection Trial</p>
<p>Students must fulfill the following criteria:</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Audition</p>
<p>Shortlisted candidates are to perform 2 contrasting pieces (with live
or recorded accompaniment)</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Interview</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Community and Youth Leadership</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>1. Students must fulfill the following criteria:</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Have a keen interest and passion in leading their peers in service
to the community;&nbsp;</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Exhibit positive attitude and commitment towards learning and
community service;</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Attain a Conduct Grade of at least ‘Very Good’ in Primary 5 (overall)
and Primary 6 (mid-year); and</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Assumed leadership role in primary school e.g School prefects,
Class Chairperson, CCA Captains or CCA Presidents.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>2.&nbsp;Experiences in the following areas would be a bonus:</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Local service learning&nbsp;</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Community outreach and VIA projects</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>3.&nbsp;All DSA applicants will be required to provide documentary evidence
of their conduct and participation in community service. Interviews will
be conducted for all shortlisted candidates.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Environmental Science</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students must fulfill the following criteria:</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Have a strong interest in Science</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Display a keen interest in environmental issues and actively engage
in activities&nbsp;that are aimed at preserving the environment and promoting
environmental awareness</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Hold leadership positions in primary school (example, Environmental
Ambassador/ Environment Club Chairman/Vice Chairman, etc); or</p>
<p>§&nbsp; Have done well in Science / Design-related / Environmental-related
competitions or projects at school or national level</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; All DSA applicants will be required to provide
documentary evidence of the above criteria. Interviews will be conducted
for all shortlisted candidates.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><u>Notes</u>:</p>
<p>Parents and students are encouraged to choose schools wisely based on
the students’ aptitudes and strengths, bearing in mind the schools’ academic
and non-academic requirements, and the programmes available to develop
the area of talent.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Students who are successfully admitted to the school via DSA are expected
to honour their commitment to the school and participate in the activities
related to the talent they are selected for from year 1-4.</p>
<p>
<br>The selection criteria and process for the talent areas will be updated
from early-May. For more information on DSA-Sec, please refer to the MOE
website at <a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/dsa-sec" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.moe.gov.sg/dsa-sec</a>.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Applicants who do not have prior experiences may also apply. The school
will access applicants based on the selection criteria, which may include
accessing the potential of the applicants.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Due to different profiles of applicants, selection / shortlisting trends
may differ year on year.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Please note that meeting all the criteria does not guarantee the student
will be shortlisted / given an offer.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Students who are successfully admitted to the school via DSA are expected
to honour their commitment to the school and participate in the activities
related to the talent they are selected for from year 1-4.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>